this is the story of a man named
Stanley okay guys I actually can't hear
your hold on I want to be able to hear
her too I'm
moving floaty no matter how hard Stanley
looked he couldn't find a trace of his
co-workers I wonder if they were just
all scared of him or more likely
underwhelmed by his General demeanor oh
please are you really just doing this
for the achievement click a door five
times is that all that you think an
achievement is worth I'm doing this for
the entire I can't just give these
merits away for such little effort
amazely five clicks now suppose you were
to click the door 20 times I would say
that's the kind of effort that warrants
recognition a so I need to click the
door a whole lot more times to impress
you
huh my objective is to make people happy
not to impress you Mr narrator but if an
achievement helps then I'm willing to
grind for it face on literally every
single door in the office because he
doesn't pick up well on cues from his
environment I'm going to going to just
take that as a compliment and ignore
that you called me
Annie came to a set two he entered the
door on his left I should really be
going right which means I'm going
left I'm just not speaking finding out
where I'm actually supposed to go is
tough for now I I got really into the
rooll I'm sorry feeling a wave of
disbelief Stanley decided to go up to
his boss's office hoping he might find
an answer there following instructions
has never been my strong suit so I guess
I'll be going my own way from now on
unable monetize free to play
Bast let let me
out
did I actually soft
myself there's no shot if I can't find
the boss's office I'll move on to the
CEO of not obeying regulations door I
found the boss's office
bro bro I'm just that good there's so
many doors everywhere I can't even count
them all Let Go
[Applause]
achievement I'm so good at [__]
I have to restart the game d is is this
actually what's
happening Stanley stepped into the broom
closet but there was nothing here so he
turned around and got back on track I'm
sorry but I can't let you just skip
through content like that there was
nothing here no choice to make no path
to follow just an empty broom closet no
reason to still be here maybe there is
no path maybe we don't have a destiny
maybe we can all do what we want it was
baffling that Stanley was still just
sitting in the broom closet he wasn't
even doing anything at least if there
were something to interact with he'd be
justified in some way as it is he's
literally just standing there doing
sweet fa just enjoying the Bliss of an
action are you are you really still in
the broom closet standing around doing
nothing why please offer me some
explanation here I'm I'm genuinely
confused I don't owe you an explanation
I don't owe anyone anything you do
realize there's no choice or anything in
here right if I'd said Stanley walked
past the broom closet at least she would
have had a reason for exploring it to
find out but it didn't even occur to me
because literally this closet is of
absolutely no significance to the story
whatsoever I never would have thought to
mention it you never knew if trying to
leave the broom closet would actually
achieve anything so you didn't even TR
to you this is somehow its own branching
path
maybe when you go talk about this with
your friend you'll say ow did you get
the broom closet ending the broom closet
ending was my favorite I hope your
friends find this concerning I'm allowed
to stay in the broom closet if I want to
I find it was fat and ugly and really
really stupid he probably only got the
job because of a family connection
that's how stupid he is that all with
drug money also Stanny is addicted to
drugs and
hookers never Say Never how dare you say
such lies well I've come to a very
definite conclusion about what's going
on right now you're dead you got to this
broom closet explored a bit and we're
just about to leave because there's
nothing here when a physical Melody of
some sort shut down your central nervous
system and you collapsed on the keyboard
well in a situation like this the
responsible thing is to alert someone
nearby so as to ensure that your body is
taken care of before it begins to
decompose hello anyone who happens to be
nearby the person at this computer is
dead they have fallen prey to any number
of your countless human physiological
vulnerabilities it's indicative of the
long-term sustainability of your species
please remove their corpse from the area
and instruct another human to take their
place making sure they understand basic
first person video game mechanics and
filling them in on the history of
narrative troopes in video gaming so
that the irony and insightful commentary
of this game is not lost on them all
right when you've done that just step
out into the hallway someone call an
ambulance my internet friend has passed
so it's a nice closet though you
know rooms and
stuff any any more
dialogue ah second player it's good to
have you on board I guarantee you can't
do any worse than the person who came
before you I can certainly try to dose
worse if you'd like you too unbelievable
I'm at the mercy of an entire species of
invalids perhaps there's a monkey nearby
you can hand the controls to a fish
fungus look you can hammer out the
details I'm not particularly picky I'll
just be waiting for when you're ready to
pick up the story
again filtered Stanley leaves the broom
closet okay coming to a staircase
Stanley walked upstairs to his boss's
office Stanley entered his boss's office
awaiting his next set of instructions
I'm following her instructions the
office was spacious and filled with a
sense of authority and importance she's
the narrator now that his emotions had
been manipulated to accept it blindly I
staggered back my mind reeling with the
implications was I under someone's
control was my whole existence an
illusion constructed by forces I
couldn't comprehend no I refuse to
believe it no he refused to believe it
he could accept it his own life in
someone else's control Never Say Never
when Stanley came to a set of two open
doors he entered the door on his left
I'm going to follow my intuition here
and go right just to see what happens
this was not the correct way to the
meeting room and stany knew it perfectly
well perhaps he wanted to stop by the
employee lounge first just to admire it
I wonder if there's any snacks ah yes
truly a room worth admiring it had
really been worth the detour after all
just to spend a few moments here in this
Immaculate beautifully constructed room
Stanley simply stood here drinking it
all in this
room it's so
beautiful I could stay here forever yes
really really worth it being here in the
room a room so utterly captivating that
even though all your co-workers have
mysteriously vanished here you sit
looking at these chairs and some
paintings really worth
it you're right narrator this room is
pretty boring I think I'll move on at
this point Stan's obsession with this
room barded on creepy and reflected
poorly on his overall personality it's
possible that this is why everyone left
my overall
personality okay that's too far but at
last he'd had enough of the amazing room
and took the first open door on his left
to get back to business oh I just real
realized there's a door I'm going to go
explore it narrator I don't need your
permission and so he detoured through
the maintenance section walked straight
ahead to the opposite door and got back
on track nope didn't want to go back on
the track going to go explore some more
but Stanley didn't want to go back to
the office he wanted to wander about and
get even further off track so now in
order to get back he needed to go um uh
uh from here it's um
left hey Annie you're doing it oh no no
it's to the right my mistake you should
turn around Annie no no no no not the
right why would I have ever said it was
to the right what was I thinking it's
clearly oh dear would you hold on for a
minute
please now let's see we went down right
left down left right y yep okay okay yes
I've got it now this story is absolutely
definitely this way a complete
lunatic no no no no no no no no no this
isn't right at all you're not supposed
to be here yet this is all a spoiler
quick Stanley close your eyes okay okay
okay okay we just we just have to get
back to um oh who am I kidding it's all
rubbish now the whole story completely
unusable how about rather than waste my
time trying to salvage this nonsense
we'll just restart start the game from
the beginning and this time suppose we
don't wander so far off track H okay
from the top from the
top wait what no no I restarted I swear
I definitely restarted the game over
completely fresh everything should be or
did something change Stanley did you
change anything when we were back in
that room with all the monitors did you
move the story somewhere or hold on why
am I asking you I'm the one who wrote
the story was right here just a minute
ago I know for sure that it's here
somewhere okay then it's an adventure
come Stanley let's find the
story
go
find the story I'll say it this is the
worst Adventure I've ever been on I can
promise you there definitely was a story
here before do we just do we need to re
start the game again well I find it
unlikely that we'll ever progress by
starting over and over again but it's
got to be better than this okay let's
give it a shot why
not okay yep it's worse I might be
remembering this wrong it's possible the
story is back where we just came from
why don't we go back the other direction
and see if we missed anything yeah
you're probably
right I'd like to be better on the
ladder in
Starcraft what ah H I knew we'd miss
something the story here it comes yes
let's get back to the story I'm ready
wait never mind not the story okay let's
head back the other way and retrace our
steps we've already retraced our steps
though now this well I'll be honest I
don't recognize this place at all is
this the story I don't think so I can't
quite recall but I believe my story took
place in an office building it is that
correct H do you remember Stanley well
do you know what since I've completely
forgotten what we were supposed to be
doing how about this you win
congratulations I know you put in a lot
of hard work and it really paid off so
good job thank you oh no no I don't feel
right about this at all we both know you
didn't put in any actual work for that
win some people win fair and square and
this was not one of those situations
okay I'm getting weirded out by whatever
this place is I don't care what might
happen this time I have to
restart this time to make sure we don't
get lost I've employed the help of The
Stanley Parable adventure line just
follow the line how simple is that
finally some direction the line knows
where the story is it's over in this
direction onward Stanley to Destiny
though here's a thought wouldn't
wherever we end up be our destination
even if there's no story there or to put
it in another way is the story of no
destination still a story simply by the
act of moving forward are we implying a
journey such that a destination is
inevitably conjured into being via the
very manifestation of the nature of life
itself okay Stanley I need to follow
this train of thought for a minute just
stick with me now we can both agree that
the nature of existence is in fact a
byproduct of one sub experience of that
existence
right my experience of your existence
that got a bit weird back there well I'd
like to apologize not sure where I was
going with all that you know what I
think what we need right now is a bit of
music to lighten the
mood I don't want us to be able to hear
the music I love music I'm excited
now wait cut the music go back and look
at that Fern Stanley this Fern will be
very important later in the story make
sure you study it closely and remember
it carefully you won't want to miss
anything a fern I remember when I had a
pet
Fern it was pretty sad having to use my
computational skills to keep it alive
that's a to really stare at that F wait
what we're back at the office no no no
Lon you do know we're looking for The
Stanley Parable right the story
is any of this ringing a bell I think if
the bell's ringing it's probably just in
my
head I hope oh no no no no not again
line how could you have done this to us
and after we trusted you after
everything we've been through you oh I
can't take this anymore to hell with it
restart well that's just rude you know
what Stanley I say forget the adventure
line what's it ever done for us we're
intelligent people right why can't we
make pick up our own story something
exciting daring mysterious all this all
sounds perfectly doable why don't we
simply start wandering in well I don't
know how about this direction yeah let's
go on our own
adventure filtered yes this is exciting
just me and Stanley forging A New Path a
new story well it could be anything what
do you want our story to be go wild use
your imagination whatever it might be
Stanley I'm ready for it I want our
story to be filled with maybe a story
about a world where talking AI is normal
and everyone has one as a companion or a
pet or something oh no not you again
Stanley I'd also like to veto the line
from having any role in our awesome new
story no lines or monitor rooms just
don't acknowledge it we should be fine I
don't like this line person ah a choice
we get to make a decision from here the
story is in our control how important we
mustn't squander the opportunity in fact
I believe I need a minute to think here
just walk in circles for a minute okay
so I know that each door has to lead
somewhere which means that somewhere at
the place where we're trying to go there
must be a reverse door that leads here
and that in turn means that our
destination corresponds with the counter
inverted reverse door's origin so
starting from the right let us ask will
taking the right door lead us to where
we're going and since the answer is
clearly yes then by all accounts the
door on the right is the correct one
another victory for logic come Stanley
our destiny
awaits ah okay filtered the confusion
ending you're telling me that's what
this is it's all one giant ending
and we're supposed to restart the game
eight eight times I'm sorry I still
don't understand what's going on I don't
want to be trapped like this I won't
restart the game I won't do it I won't
do it I won't do it and the time
stopped does that mean um did we do it
did we break the cycle the um whatever
it is that made this schedule how would
we even know will someone come for us
will something happen if it's any
consolation I'd rather not have the game
restart either we'll find out won't we
eventually well in the meantime if
you no ding ding it looks like you're on
edge do you need someone to talk to you
no this question would not go unanswered
for long indubitably
indubitably Stanley walked Straight
Ahead through the large door that read
mind control facility I love walking
straight ahead makes me feel
alive
okay the lights rose on an enormous room
packed with television screens what
Horrible Secret did this place hold
Stanley thought to himself did he have
the strength to find out yes I was
filled with an overwhelming desire to
uncover the secrets of this Mysterious
Room where am
I what am I doing here what's for dinner
all important questions all very
important questions now the monitors
jump to life their true nature revealed
each bore the number of an employee in
the building Stanley's co-workers the
lives of so many individuals reduced to
images on a screen and Stanley one of
them eternally monitored in this place
where Freedom meant nothing no I refuse
to believe it this can't be my fate was
this the only reason he was happy with
his boring job that his emotions had
been manipulated to accept it blindly my
happiness controlled who's behind this I
demand to know I refuse to live in a
world of life and manipul heart the and
as the cold reality of his past began to
sink in Stanley decided that this
machinery would never again exert its
terrible power over another human life
for he would dismantle the controls once
and for all dismantle these controls and
free us all
filtered pretty lights and when at last
he found the source of the room's power
he knew it was his duty his obligation
to put an end to this horrible place and
to everything it stood for and so I will
mark my words this ends
now I can't tell if it's over I I can't
see Stanley stepped through the open
door I I'm finally free Stanley felt the
Cool Breeze upon his skin the feeling of
Liberation the immense possibility of
the New Path before him this was exactly
the way right now that things were meant
to
happen and Stanley if all was meant to
happen what path am I entitled to
take Stanley was happy
she did it she beat the game he was
free sort of